README.md, before:

DUB registry
============

![vibe.d logo](public/images/logo-small.png) Online registry for [dub](https://github.com/dlang/dub/) packages, see <http://code.dlang.org/>.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dlang/dub-registry.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/dlang/dub-registry)

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://www.heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/dlang/dub-registry)

How to build & run locally
--------------------------

Requirements:
- OpenSSL
- MongoDB

```
dub
```

Running as a mirror
-------------------

```
dub -- --mirror=https://code.dlang.org
```

GitHub/GitLab API
-----------------

By default the GitHub/GitLab update cron job will use anonymous authentication on your local machine. As GitHub's API without authentication is quite rate-limited, you probably want to use authenticated API requests.
You can do so by creating a `settings.json` in the root folder of the dub-registry and adding credentials for the needed APIs:

```json
{
	"github-user": "<github-user-name>",
	"github-password": "<github-personal-access-token from https://github.com/settings/tokens>",
	"gitlab-url": "https://gitlab.com/",
	"gitlab-auth": "<gitlab-api-token from https://gitlab.com/profile/personal_access_tokens>",
	"bitbucket-user": "<your-fancy-user-name>",
	"bitbucket-password": "<your-fancy-password>"
}
```

It's recommended to create a separate account for the DUB registry GitHub authentication. Equally, if no GitLab packages are used in your local repository, no GitLab authentication is needed.

It's absolutely recommended to create a personal access token without any extra permissions for your GitHub account instead of entering your password plain text into the settings file. You can generate an access token at https://github.com/settings/tokens (Settings -> Developer Settings -> Personal access tokens)

Note that previous versions of this README stated to write down the password in plain text. This should be considered insecure as special characters in your password such as '@' could expose following parts of the password to the users.

### SECURITY NOTICE

Development versions prior to 2.3.0 were leaking the GitLab private token in error messages shown to the user. Please make sure to use the latest version along with a freshly generated token.

Running without the cron job
----------------------------

For local development it's often useful to disable the cron job, you can do so with the `--no-monitoring` flag:

```
dub -- --no-monitoring
```

Importing a one-time snapshot from the registry
-----------------------------------------------

You can download a dump of all packages and import it into your local registry for development:

```
curl https://code.dlang.org/api/packages/dump | gunzip > mirror.json
dub -- --mirror=mirror.json
```

Starting the registry with `mirror.json` will import all packages within the JSON file.
Once all packages have been imported, you can start the registry as you normally would:

```
dub
```

And you should notice that it now contains all packages which are listed on code.dlang.org

Note that `--mirror=mirror.json` and `--mirror=https://code.dlang.org` are very similar and the `mirror.json` is only preferred for local development because it allows to easily nuke the entire mongo database and re-initialize it without needing any connection to the internet.

Deploy your private dub-registry with Docker
--------------------------------------------

The [dlangcommunity/dub-registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/dlangcommunity/dub-registry/) Docker image is available for an easy setup:

```
export DUB_REGISTRY_HOME="$PWD"
docker run --rm -ti -p 9095:9095 -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/bitnami -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/dub dlangcommunity/dub-registry
```

This will run both `mongodb` and `dub-registry` while persisting the database in the `$DUB_REGISTRY_HOME` location. The registry is accessible at http://127.0.0.1:9095

To run it as a daemon and make it auto-restart use:

```
docker run -d --restart=always -ti -p 9095:9095 -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/bitnami -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/dub dlangcommunity/dub-registry
```

The registry can be configured by adding the `settings.json` file in `$DUB_REGISTRY_HOME` folder.

Staging server
--------------

An auto-deployed version of `master` can be found at https://dub-registry-staging.herokuapp.com.

FAQ: I'm getting an "undefined reference to 'SSLv23_client_method'"
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Link with OpenSSL 1.1:

```
dub --override-config="vibe-d:tls/openssl-1.1"
```

Commit message:

Improve README wording for github token

README.md, after:

DUB registry
============

![vibe.d logo](public/images/logo-small.png) Online registry for [dub](https://github.com/dlang/dub/) packages, see <http://code.dlang.org/>.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dlang/dub-registry.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/dlang/dub-registry)

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://www.heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/dlang/dub-registry)

How to build & run locally
--------------------------

Requirements:
- OpenSSL
- MongoDB

```
dub
```

Running as a mirror
-------------------

```
dub -- --mirror=https://code.dlang.org
```

GitHub/GitLab API
-----------------

By default the GitHub/GitLab update cron job will use anonymous authentication on your local machine. As GitHub's API without authentication is quite rate-limited, you probably want to use authenticated API requests.
You can do so by creating a `settings.json` in the root folder of the dub-registry and adding credentials for the needed APIs:

```json
{
	"github-user": "<github-user-name>",
	"github-password": "<github-personal-access-token from https://github.com/settings/tokens>",
	"gitlab-url": "https://gitlab.com/",
	"gitlab-auth": "<gitlab-api-token from https://gitlab.com/profile/personal_access_tokens>",
	"bitbucket-user": "<your-fancy-user-name>",
	"bitbucket-password": "<your-fancy-password>"
}
```

It's recommended to create a separate account for the DUB registry GitHub authentication. Equally, if no GitLab packages are used in your local repository, no GitLab authentication is needed.

It's absolutely recommended to create a personal access token without any extra permissions for your GitHub account instead of entering your password plain text into the settings file. You can generate an access token at https://github.com/settings/tokens (Settings -> Developer Settings -> Personal access tokens)

Note that previous versions of this README stated to write down the password in plain text. An access token with limited scope can be considered slightly more secure and should be preferred over this.

### SECURITY NOTICE

Development versions prior to 2.3.0 were leaking the GitLab private token in error messages shown to the user. Please make sure to use the latest version along with a freshly generated token.

Running without the cron job
----------------------------

For local development it's often useful to disable the cron job, you can do so with the `--no-monitoring` flag:

```
dub -- --no-monitoring
```

Importing a one-time snapshot from the registry
-----------------------------------------------

You can download a dump of all packages and import it into your local registry for development:

```
curl https://code.dlang.org/api/packages/dump | gunzip > mirror.json
dub -- --mirror=mirror.json
```

Starting the registry with `mirror.json` will import all packages within the JSON file.
Once all packages have been imported, you can start the registry as you normally would:

```
dub
```

And you should notice that it now contains all packages which are listed on code.dlang.org

Note that `--mirror=mirror.json` and `--mirror=https://code.dlang.org` are very similar and the `mirror.json` is only preferred for local development because it allows to easily nuke the entire mongo database and re-initialize it without needing any connection to the internet.

Deploy your private dub-registry with Docker
--------------------------------------------

The [dlangcommunity/dub-registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/dlangcommunity/dub-registry/) Docker image is available for an easy setup:

```
export DUB_REGISTRY_HOME="$PWD"
docker run --rm -ti -p 9095:9095 -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/bitnami -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/dub dlangcommunity/dub-registry
```

This will run both `mongodb` and `dub-registry` while persisting the database in the `$DUB_REGISTRY_HOME` location. The registry is accessible at http://127.0.0.1:9095

To run it as a daemon and make it auto-restart use:

```
docker run -d --restart=always -ti -p 9095:9095 -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/bitnami -v $DUB_REGISTRY_HOME:/dub dlangcommunity/dub-registry
```

The registry can be configured by adding the `settings.json` file in `$DUB_REGISTRY_HOME` folder.

Staging server
--------------

An auto-deployed version of `master` can be found at https://dub-registry-staging.herokuapp.com.

FAQ: I'm getting an "undefined reference to 'SSLv23_client_method'"
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Link with OpenSSL 1.1:

```
dub --override-config="vibe-d:tls/openssl-1.1"
```
